And the beef because the Indians were so prevalent
that they'd steal anything that they could get.
The logs up there is where they would put their
bedrollers over the day and take them down at
night. That's where they would be put in here.
Grandmother did her work of quilting out here, and
it was cool. He would go in to Austin to get the
commodities, and this is more or less of a trading
post. He would have bring back wagon loads of
things and supply what he had around
here. Well, over here, you can see that where
that's lined up out there, that ridge, In 1920, my
husband and I bought 30 acres of the original Louis
Johnson home place, and that is it. And it came to
right where that smokehouse is, right down here.
The rest of it, from here to town, and from here to
the highway, was ours. And just this house, from
here to the Bruckner's at that time. We sold that to
President Johnson and moved our cows from there.
But it is quite something else. My grandmother was
brought here as a bride, and I was brought over
there as a bride. So that's how my roots are built. a
little bit deeper than the average
person. And I love it. And I love the people. I guess
that's why I'm here. Do they even go back? I don't
know. How about that time that the Indians nearly
got to your grandmother? Well, she had gone down to
the... Well, we dug that hole out down there. You
all saw that big pool of water. And when we dug it
out, We found lots of cattle and horse bones and
things. That was an open spring that bubbled up. So
we dug it out and irrigated all of that land down
there. But when grandmother lived here, she went
down there together, some poke greens for dinner,
and bring some fresh water back to the house. She
looked out across the flat over there, or the
senderos it's called, up there and she saw these
Comanche Indians coming and she knew that if they
got up here that they would kill her babies. She had
two of them. One was a tiny baby in the cradle in
there and the other was about 18 months old.
running around and she had left them here at the
house while she went down. They were asleep while
she went down to get the water. So she left her water
and she come running back up here and she pulled her
rug back from in front of the hearse and
Grandfather had a root cellar down under there.
They kept a lot of their things hid from the
enemies. So she grabbed a diaper and put around the
tiny baby and took the other little one and they
crawled down in under this, in this root cellar and
pulled the lid over it. And the Indians came
through and they stole everything that
Grandfather had gone to Austin to get to go up the
trail the next day, next two days rather. He was to
leave the second day after the raid. She went to the
barn and he saw that they had killed the bee and they
had taken her saddle and they had taken her horse.
And he came back to the house and he called Eliza and
Eliza didn't answer. He called Eliza and she still
didn't answer. And he went through the house and he
thought we didn't have any commodities left,
nothing left. They had cleaned him out. And he
said, well, I guess they've just taken her and
taken the babies. And he looked in the cradle, and
there was nothing in the cradle. And he had his
boots on, and he stomped his foot, and he said,
Eliza Jane Button, if you're here, you answer me.
She said, yes, Sammy Lee, I'm here. He said, well,
why didn't you answer me before? She said, Sammy
Lee? Don't you know that an Indian can mimic
anything and everything that ever walked? And how
did they? They didn't know that my name was Eliza
Jane Button, and nobody but you did. And that's the
reason I answered you. So that's when she came out.
She said to me, she said, now, Sammy Lee, I have
these two little girls. And I'm not going to raise
them in the wilderness. You can just take me back to
the prairie and you can take these cattle on that
Chisholm Trail and say, let me live in peace. While
you're gone, I'm not going to stay up here. So she
went back to the prairie. She was a little woman,
but I want you to know she covered the ground she
stood on. And when she told you that that was enough
when you were little, she didn't repeat it the
second time. You knew better. Okay? Oh.
I have found something I thought was right good.
But she's hard but true. I
didn't put down my camera, and I intended to do
that.
I forgot my county. Anyway, what
county is it in Texas that's larger than the state
of Rhode Island and doesn't have a single
commercial business in it? I have forgotten and I
had that put down. Brewster. Brewster County. All
right. Only 900 people live there. They have their
own church, their own school, their own post
office, and their own commissary. It's larger
than the King Ranch. And it's the only county in
Texas that doesn't have a single gasoline
station. Well, that's it. I was thinking of
gasoline stations then. So unusual for this day
and time. That's the reason why I put it down here.
Now, one thing about living here, and I know Miss A
was talking about this before, but this really was
isolated. We'd gotten here pretty easily and the
roads were good and everything, but it was a
different story. in the 1910s and 1920s, Linden
worked on the first road that they built into this
area. I don't think that Linden was the only one who
worked on it, brother. I did too. We had a wagon.
That was before child labor law came into effect.
My daddy had a wagon in Keene, and we had
in this old wagon, the bottom of it, and they had
them tapered so we could turn them like that and
empty the sand out. And we hauled sand from the
river down there to the first six miles on this road
from Johnson City to Miller Creek right out there.
And there was three of us, my sister and Lyndon and
I. And I was the oldest.
Listen, it's no fun to be the oldest of women. I'll
tell you that. Because he was the largest, and he
thought he was boss. And my dad used to say, now you
do this, sister. You do this, and you keep him in
line. Keep him in line, me, I. And I got more
spankings for it than anything else. But anyway,
we hauled gravel for that. And then Uncle Sam,
actually, we got it. Actually, it was tops. They
had a lot of loose rock and things along the side.
And they gave London a rake and told him to rake
those rocks off down in the bar ditch so they could
come along with the Fresno and pick them all off.
Well, he worked a couple days and decided that he
could go back to school and do anything to do that.
That's the truth. That's the real. Anything else
you want to know besides what I haven't
told you? Oh,
you know if you want to call somebody a bad name and
you want to really, really get to them, just call
them a turkey. That's all you have to do, just call
them a turkey. There's a picture down there in the
exhibit center. where they bought turkeys. And
they were bought, and we'd drive those plastic
things, and that's a good name for them, from here
to Marble Falls. And every time a grace offered to
fly over the road, what do you think happened? Yes,
they scattered from here to breakfast. And then
you'd have to go and round them up again and get them
started out. And you couldn't drive them in a day's
time. You couldn't drive them in two days' time.
And let me tell you something. A turkey won't roost
in an ordinary tree. It's got to be the highest tree
that they can find. And
you've got to just work them around and around and
around that tree to ever get them to roost. Oh, it
And if you want to get even with anybody, don't call
them chicken. That's a good name. Call them a
turkey. How long did it take y'all to do that? Two
days and nights. It
will measure about 23 miles.
No, sir, that's not moving. You can go four miles an
hour with a turkey if you'll make him go. Four miles
is a pretty good speed for a turkey, but you don't
make
him do it. Miss Cox, you were driving cattle to town
when you had the turtle suits, weren't you? Yes, I
was. She didn't want to tell about the turtle
suits. My daddy made, now this is a long time ago,
they farmed kids out just like they go down to the
border and get some wetbacks to come in and work.
Well, in this country, they'd farm the kids out
like mine. And so they'd farm those, well... They
said, get those Johnson kids. Go ahead and tell
them. Get that bunch of Johnson kids. They're
tougher than a boot. We'll get by with them. So
that's the name we had. So no use to deny those
things. You'd like to be good, but there wasn't any
good things. And we didn't rob a bank, though, boys
and girls. And we didn't get put in jail. We got led
up to it. We just didn't get any. You got as close as
you could get. Just as close as we could get. That's
for seeding chickens and drying them on the river.
I didn't hear that. It's the first time I've heard
it. You're telling me more than I want to know.
Well, a senior class, it was six of us anyway. And
the six of us, there's three Chomsons. So... And
one of them, one, wasn't it, Johnson, was Ross, and
she was the first cousin of Margaret and I, so we was
all kinfolks. I had made four of us, and the other
two had to follow suit every time. Poor things,
they didn't have a chance. They didn't have a
chance. They didn't have a chance. They just had to
follow along with us, so they did. And we went out
here, and we had plenty of chickens at home, but,
you know, it's just fun to see if we can get it out of
somebody else's. And to keep them from hollering,
we had to wring their necks. So we'd kill them as
soon as we caught them. And we had four. And there
was only six of us in the class. Now, we had four
chickens to eat. But we went down there, and every
one of us was designated. Now, you go get the flour.
You slip the flour out. You get the salt and pepper.
You get the grease. You get the pan. And anybody
that failed to bring it, boy, They got sent back
actually, and they were glad to get him. But
anyway, that's how that worked. And I want you to
know we finally took him up a storm, and we heard
this car coming. And you know, cars in those days
would scare us to death. But we heard it coming, and
we didn't want the world. We knew there was
something. Well, this was the district attorney.
Yeah, and he came up. And he came down there and he
asked us where we got those chickens. Lemon was the
spokesman. He said, well, uh... He looked at me and
started saying, we got him today. And Kitty said,
no, we didn't have him in the cook. We didn't have
him. So Kitty and I said, that was my cousin. She...
yeah we got him over at mr ross's and he said good
night uncle and he came out of that course and my
chickens were all in the pen well all right he's
already sunk so we told him where we got him and he
gave us a lecture and he told us that well he'd have
us before the grand jury the next day We'd have to,
man, what a disgrace we'd draw on our families, but
the zillion chickens and these just ruined the
reputation of the school. All of us seniors, and
we'd just ruin the reputation of the Johnson City
High School seniors by doing anything like that.
Well, we spared the living car out of it. And sure
enough, that's before the grand jury. And we told
them we didn't. And we were assessed penalty.
paying for them. And we did. Of course, it wasn't
too much. But, you know, in those days, a dollar a
hen was a whole lot of money. And it was a whole lot of
money for us to get. And what we did, well, shoot. We
did. I washed dishes all day in the cafe for a
quarter. trying to save that old man. Did you even
get to finish eating the chicken? No, we didn't get
any of it. They took it all and just left us. And I
mean, we just spewed and sputtered in our own fat.
Scared to death. Now, there was one time I said we
was right at the jailhouse doors. I'd rather have
been put in jail and listened to that call. And it
happened. Tell them about the turtle soup. Well,
my daddy had sold these steers to Tom
Stripling, who was a big cattle buyer in this
country back in 1915 to 1925. He bought lots of
turtle soup here. And so we lived down the river
there, 10 miles, and he sold it round mountain this
way about Well, it's exactly 15 miles to his pens,
and so that's 25 miles. So you drive an old cow just
about five, six miles, not over that, an hour, if
they drive good, and if you've got the lane and you
don't have seat brakes, and you don't have
something to scare them with, you get along pretty
good, and if you don't, you do. So we got over there
just about... She told us she had a great long
fortune. She told us, you can take your horse down
to the barn. You can put it in there. And put your
saddle and your blanket over here so you can use
that to sleep on it. Look at Marty. Look at him. I
thought he was sleeping on an old stinky, wet
saddle blanket. Didn't say anything. So we put our
blanket and our saddle down and went on down and put
the horse in the barn and Teddy came on back up to the
house and still just worrying me to death about
having to sleep on that stinking saddle blanket.
Had an old stinky. sweaty saddle blanket and got to
sleep on it. You know what I'm talking about. You
missed part of your life. It really is a loader. So
she called us in and said, I got just something to
eat. She said, don't wash your hands. I didn't see
any place to wash hands. But I said, where, Mrs.
Scribby? And she said, oh, there's a tin tub right
out there in the back closet. She said, just go out
there and wash it. OK, we went out there and washed
our hands in the tin tub. Come back, went in the
house and sat down and gave us a big bowl. And in
front of it was just as clear as crystal. It looked
like that. But then I said, what is this news? She
says, that's soup. He says, soup? And he looked
down again and he said, well, just what kind of soup
is this? She said, well, Tuttle soup of course.
It's good for you. Margaret pushed it back. I
pushed mine back. She said, well, what in the world
is wrong with you gal? Are you too high-toned to eat
Tuttle? Margaret said, I sure am. I just can't do
this. And so... Tom came along and
he gave us each one a nickel. And it was a mile and a
half over to the country store. And we
walked over there and got a A can of five cents of
sardines. Oh, God. And a package. Lyndon brought
the crackers. And Marguerite and I bought two cans
of sardines, and that was our supper. Oh, God. Oh,
God. That's just what I thought. And hungry. I was
hungry to my heels. That's what we had. That's a
total soup. That total soup didn't go down. Sure it
didn't. Y'all have any questions you want to ask
me? All right, this is something that is off the
records, but we talked about this in 1936 from the
headless Centennial Parade in San Antonio. My
father was president of the old trail drivers and I
rode in that parade. This year, when the wagon
train came through, I got on down here at San
Antonio, rode up the air and from here to Kerber. So
I don't know that I'll make the next 50 years that I
made this. I'd bet money on it. I wouldn't be there
trying. But anyway, that's something that you
won't find. Not too many people can make that
claim. No, that's what I say. Not too many can do
that. I just wonder how many that were part of that
Centennial train did make it to the . I don't know. I
had no idea. I was working down at the ranch, down at
Cypress Mill, and I mean working, I mean all of it.
She still keeps the ranch going now. I have
double-registered burners, and I'm proud of
them. They're pretty. And I went down, I was
working, I was working down there yesterday
afternoon, but anyway, come back in that before
it's going to pity. The telephone rang and said,
Ms. Cox, what do you have lined up for this next
week? I said, well, nothing, only just ordinary
chores that a person with a place has to take care
of. Why? Well, would you, do you think you'd be
able, are you physically fit to ride a wagon? I
said, what? So I asked over, do you think you're
physically fit to ride a wagon? I said, well, I'm
going to tell you something. I've ridden in wagons
a lot of times. And they're a lot easier riding than
some of these Ford's that I've been in. So she said,
well, what I called for, I want to know if you'd ride
in a 16-year-old wagon train. I said, well, I don't
mind that. You just want me to ride, and I don't have
to do anything? Not a thing. Well, that was a bunch
of baloney I got to do plenty of. But anyway, I
enjoyed every bit of it, and it was worth it. Of
course, they didn't think I could cook, but I can
fool you. I can make good, good sourdough biscuits
in an old skillet. That was something. No turtle
soup. Is there anything else? Oh, I don't know
whether you, I know that you don't know this. The
jail down here that we have,
in the 17 surrounding counties, it's the only one
that passed inspection by the state. And it was
built by a man by the name of
Kergy La Pookas Buildout. Isn't that a name for
you? But anyway, he built that and it was all out of
native rock like we have here and native rock that
came from right over there. And it was done by, and
it was specified in the order that was sent out that
it all be done by native labor. And it was done by
native labor. And he also built the vault in the
courthouse that's down there now, and locked it,
and built the lock for it. And he locked it. And they
gave us a value for it this last, well, I started
working on it in last May. Finally got it through
last month. Yeah, you know, in addition to, since
she doesn't have anything else to do, she's
involved. with the Blanco County Historical
Society. Just a little thing. How many clubs did
you tell me who were coming back last spring? Five?
Yeah, just about five. Garden Club, Woman's Club.
You and I, your daughters, I'm proud of that. I
think that's worth a whole lot of time now. Not
everything that was left. You don't have any
questions you want to ask them? This is your
chance. Yeah, I don't know. Yeah, exactly. You
know, you mentioned that you're, Dave mentioned
that you're teaching a course, Lyndon went into
education also. I'm just wondering, what was the
main influence for you going into that? Well, I'll
tell you, it's a sad story. When you're born into a
family of nothing but teachers, there's not much
salvation for you. You just have to go ahead and do
it. That's it. Now, my grandmother Johnson's
family, they were music teachers, art teachers,
and, of course, they call it home economics, but
she was a seamstress. She taught sewing,
principles. And then regular teachers there.
Then, on my mother's side, the same six and a half,
there wasn't any way that we could get out of it.
It's just that or else. And if you've ever been that
else road once with them, you don't want to repeat.
You just go ahead. I forgot how you said when you
married your husband. How old were you? Well, I
wasn't old enough. I knew you were young, but I
can't remember how old you were. Well, my mother
said I wasn't right behind the ears. Well, I don't
think any. 17-year-old girl really knows what she
wants to do to get out of work. That's the only thing
I can tell you she wants to do. Are you married to get
out of work? Yeah, but they don't know what they're
getting into. They're probably getting more work
than they do. They absolutely do. They absolutely
do. But, well, you can't tell them anything if you
swallow them both. Now this, this is rippling, but
it's the truth before my girls got on it. We went to
church that morning. Well, my husband had asked me
once to watch the door, and I get to show you how
little sense you go ahead. And I feel like now I have
a little bit of common sense, but I won't say too
much. But anyway... Went to church that morning. I
go to church whether I do any good or not, I go. So
when we went in, he said to me, he said, how about us
getting married today? I said, what did you say? He
said, how about us getting married today? I just
turned around and I said, well, brother, what do
you know? Get the license, let's go. no more give it
a thought than nothing under the shining sun, so
help me glory. And I didn't think anything about
it. No, I really didn't. And he just turned around
and left me standing there at the door. And when it
was time to go in, I went on in and sat down. And they
sang Onward Christian Soldiers. And Owen wasn't
there. I thought, oh, heavens. He'd gone
somewhere else. I don't know where, but he went
there. And so then
the next song they sang, they usually sang three,
and then every class went to their room for
service. And they sang, The Half Has Never Yet Been
Told. And I thought to myself, that's a song.
Wonder what our lessons are. Well, about that time
old one walked up. He didn't stop by where I sit. He
never even looked at me. His head would be lying up
to where that creature's sitting down. And he said
to him, he said, Brother Morgan, I have the license
here, and I think that Ava and I'd like to get
married this month. He said, well, you'll just do
it right now. Oh, yeah. And that's exactly what
happened down that aisle. He came, he picked me up,
he said, are you ready? I said, with what? He said,
we're going to get married. I said, well, I told
you, I read his viewer. I didn't have one or two
things. I didn't even have a purse. I didn't have
one thing. Oh. And just as he said, I pronounce you
Mary Michael, and then Margaret walked in that
door of the church. And he said, oh, no, you can't do
that, Ava. You can't.